you shall not sacrifice to the Lord your
God a bull or sheep which has any
blemish or defect for that is an
abomination to the Lord your God if
there is found among you within any of
your gates which the Lord your God gives
you a man or a woman who has been wicked
in the sight of the Lord your God in
transgressing his covenant who has gone
and served other gods and worship them
either the Sun or moon or any of the
hosts of heaven which I have not
commanded and it is told you and you
hear of it
then you shall inquire diligently and if
it is indeed truth and certain that such
an abomination has been committed in
Israel
then you shall bring out to your gates
that man or woman who has committed that
wicked thing and shall stone to death
that man or woman with stones whoever is
deserving of death shall be put to death
on the testimony of two or three
witnesses he shall not be put to death
on the testimony of one witness the
hands of the witnesses shall be the
first against him to put him to death
and afterward the hands of all the
people so you shall put away the evil
from among you if a matter arises which
is too hard for you to judge between
degrees of guilt for bloodshed between
one judgement or another
or between one punishment or another
matters of controversy within your gates
then you shall arise and go up to the
place which the Lord your God chooses
and you shall come to the priests the
Levites and to the judge there in those
days and inquire of them they shall
pronounce upon you the sentence of
judgment you shall do according to the
sentence which they pronounce upon you
in that place which the Lord chooses and
you shall be careful to do according to
all that they order you according to the
sentence of the law in which they
instruct you according to the judgment
which they tell you you shall do you
shall not turn aside to the right hand
or to the left from the sentence which
they pronounce upon you
now the man who acts presumptuously and
will not heed the priest who stands to
minister there before the Lord your God
or the judge that man shall die so you
shall put away the evil from Israel and
all the people shall hear and fear and
no longer act presumptuously when you
come to the land which the Lord your God
is giving you and possess it and dwell
in it and say I will set a king over me
like all the nations that are around me
you shall surely set a king over you
whom the Lord your God chooses one from
among your brethren you shall set as
king over you you may not set a
foreigner over you who is not your
brother
but he shall not multiply horses for
himself no cause the people who to
return to Egypt to multiply horses for
the Lord has said to you you shall not
return that way again
neither shall he multiply wives for
himself lest his heart turn away nor
shall he greatly multiply silver and
gold for himself also it shall be when
he sits on the throne of his kingdom
that he shall write for himself a copy
of this law in a book from the one
before the priests the Levites and it
shall be with him and he shall read it
all the days of his life that he may
learn to fear the Lord his God and be
careful to observe all the words of this
law and these statutes and his heart may
not be lifted above his brethren that he
may not turn aside from the commandment
to the right hand or to the left
and that he may prolong his days in his
kingdom he and his children in the midst
of Israel
you